                        UPX and SELinux
                        March 6, 2006


When a program that has been compressed by UPX is run, the decompressor
must create and write new memory pages of executable instructions.
SELinux (Security Enhanced Linux) directly controls the conditions
under which generating and/or executing new instructions is allowed,
so the configuration settings of SELinux affect the running of programs
that have been compressed by UPX.

In SELinux "strict enforcing" mode (the most restrictive), generating
new instructions at runtime is not allowed at all: any page with
PROT_EXEC permission must be mapped from a file in a mounted filesystem
that has 'x' [eXecute] permission, and the generation of such files is
also tightly controlled.  A program that was compressed by UPX will not
run in SELinux strict enforcing mode.  Attempts will fail with exit
code 127, and a record will be added to the history file
/var/log/audit/audit.log.

In "targeted enforcing" mode, SELinux pays close attention mostly to
designated processes that run with elevated privileges: web server,
print server, login server, etc.  Ordinary user excutables receive
much less scrutiny.  However, one of the eventual goals of SELinux is to
eradicate runtime generation of instructions because of the possibility
for exploitation by malware (virus, trojan, key logger, privilege
elevation exploit, etc.)  Thus targeted enforcing mode notices and
logs the use of "execmem" capability that is used by a program which
was compressed by UPX.  In keeping with the goal of eventual prohibition,
SELinux ordinarily would deny execmem.  However, most current SELinux
systems, including Fedora Core 5 [set for release March 15, 2006],
override this with "allow_exemem=1" in /etc/selinux/targeted/booleans.
Thus a program compressed by UPX will run in the default installed
configuration (targeted enforcing, allow_execmem=1) of SELinux under
Fedora Core 5.  Each invocation will add a few lines to the log file
/var/log/audit/audit.log, one line for each use of execmem.  If the
SELinux policy becomes more restrictive in the future, then a special
SELinux class or other mechanism must be created for compressed programs,
or else UPX-compressed executables will not run then.

In its "permissive" modes, SELinux just logs the potential problems,
but otherwise does not interfere.  A program compressed by UPX will run
in any permissive mode.
